All righty, okay, let's write some code.
I've been talking too much.
I just wanna write code.
That's what I'm here for.
So let's write our first Node.js program.
But in order to do that,
we need to install it.
So there's many ways to install it.
I already have it installed.
You can walk through what I'm
about to show you to install it.
You can also just use something
like CodeSandbox in this example.
And most tutorials probably would
just use something like CodeSandbox,
but I wanna walk through
how to install Node.
I think that's important to know.
If you're gonna be using it, know just how
to install it cuz there's many ways to do
it and there's some gotchas.
So I'm gonna walk you through my preferred
way, which is using something called NVM.
So NVM stands for Node Version Manager,
and it's exactly what it sounds like.
It manages your versions of Node.
So if you wanna use NVM, you can actually
head over to their documentation.
And you can copy their install scripts.
I believe this install script is universal
and it works pretty much any machine here.
So you can copy this one right here and
run that in your terminal.
And then once you have that,
depending on your setup,
whether you're using Bash or
Zsh or whatever, you wanna add,
you wanna copy this and
add it to your specific setup.
In my setup,
I'm pretty sure I'm using Zsh, so
I might have this in my Z-S-H-R-C file.
This might be your Bash profile file.
If this sounds too complicated to install,
don't worry about it [LAUGH] we'll go
the other way to install something.
It'll be some gotchas there,
but it'll work for today.
This is just my preferred method.
And the reason I like NVM is because
it allows you to switch versions.
You can literally change a version
of Node whenever you want.
Whereas if you go through the Node.js
documentation website and
install it that way with the installer,
you'll get the latest version, but
you can't switch versions.
And then there's a lot of security issues
around how that installation access files
on your computer, which makes installing
things kinda complicated sometimes.
So to avoid that whole issue,
I just use NVM.
So you have NVM here.
Once we have that, you should be
able to go to your machine and
do something like nvm, and
if you hit that, you'll see some version.
If you get an error here,
that means either a,
you didn't do this part correctly.
Where you paste this into either your bash
profile, your bashrc, your zshrc file.
And which, by the way, once you do that,
if and when you do that,
you can't use the same terminal window
because it needs to reevaluate that file.
So the best thing you can do
is you can type in source,
followed by the file that you just edited,
whichever one you added that to.
Or the easier way is just open
up a new terminal tab, and
that will reevaluate that file.
Cuz you can't use the same tab that
you were in when you added it.
It won't know that you updated that file.
So once you have it,
you'll see nvm version.
Now, if you're having trouble with this,
then the easy way to install it is
just to go to the Node.js website.
Gotta make sure I Google that cuz I
think someone owns the Node.js.com or
something like that, and
it's an inappropriate website.
So I never [LAUGH] never go to,
it's always just Googling to
make sure I got the right one.
But you just click right here, right?
It'll detect what system you're on.
And you can just click this one here,
18.6.0 LTS.
LTS stands for long-term support.
Basically, every other version,
they have a long-term support version in
which they plan on supporting for a while.
But then every odd version,
it's not a long-term support version and
it's gonna get thrown away.
So almost never installed
the odd number ones.
I always just install these.
You can do 20.
I just haven't tested this app on 20, so
I don't know if there
are any breaking changes.
But we're gonna use
the latest of 18.16.10.
So you can click this,
it has an installer.
It's very easy to install.
It'll do all the work for you.
And then once you have that installed,
you should be able to do node version and
see what version you have.
I'm a little behind with 18.14,
but that's a minor version, so
it shouldn't be any difference between if
you had 18.16, so don't worry about it.
Okay, hopefully, everyone had
enough time to get Node install,
whether it was with NVM or
from the Node.js website.
If you did do NVM, just make sure you
also, once you have NVM installed
that you then install Node using nvm
install followed by the version you want.
So that would be nvm install 18, and
that would install the version 18,
and then you should be good to go.
Okay, so once you have that going,
you can doubl-check,
node --version, and
you can see what version you have.
It'll also tell you the path on which
it was installed, things like that,
depending on your terminal.
Now, what we can do is we can
write our first Node.js program.
So I'm just gonna make
a new repo here to folder.
I'm just gonna call it intro-node.
Okay, so many things, there we go.
And I'm just gonna open
this up in my VS Code.
And I'm just gonna make a new file here,
call it index.js.
You can call it whatever you want.
I'm just gonna call it index.js.
And I'm just gonna write some JavaScript
that you've probably already seen before.
I'm gonna write console.log.
And I'm just gonna say, hello world.
I'm gonna save that.
And then once I do that, I'm just gonna
say node and then the path to that file.
Seeing how this terminal
is already in this folder,
I can just type index.js and execute that.
And then I should see the output
hello world in the terminal.
So what's actually happening here?
Well, this is how you execute JavaScript
with Node outside of the browser.
Before you typically would have
the written code in a script tag or
another JavaScript file
included that in the HTML file,
go to the browser, let it run, open up
the console, and then you can see it.
Or you could just open up the console and
write JavaScript in there,
which is not a good experience, but that's
how you'd have to write JavaScript and
evaluate it and execute it before.
Now you can just write it in a file and
point to it with this node command here
in your terminal and it will execute it.
So any arbitrary JavaScript you can write.
So if you go in there and
write some things, run it,
you'll see what I'm talking about.
It's pretty simple.
Also the other thing to note is that
we were able to use something familiar,
console.
Whereas before in the browser
when you do console log,
that actually goes to the browser console.
Whereas in the terminal,
the console is the terminal.
So in most languages on the operating
system, you might see this as print.
It might say something like print,
print line, or print something.
Whereas in JavaScript, it's still console
because JavaScript was made in the browser
where there was a console.
So when they brought it over,
they decided to just keep it console,
but it's the equivalent of print and other
OS level languages, if that makes sense.
Any questions on that?
Okay, and yeah, I mean, get in here.
See what happens if you try to do
something that you normally would do in
a browser.
Anyone knows, anyone wanna guess if I did
something like alert what might happen?
>> I can guess.
>> Yeah.
>> You're gonna get a dialog box in
the browser.
I guess I don't know what would happen
if you run it in your terminal, though.
>> Right, so yeah [LAUGH] exactly.
So what do you think would happen
if I ran this on a terminal?
>> Nothing?
>> Let's see, so
I run this in the terminal.
Boom, I get an error,
alert is not defined, and
that's where we start
to see the differences.
Like I said, there are some things
that carry over, like the console, but
there are other things like
an alert that doesn't.
And the reason something like an alert
probably wouldn't carry over because alert
does something visual,
like you said, a dialog box.
There's no visual output for
terminals that's text based.
So you probably wouldn't get
an alert on the terminal.
I guess maybe it would make sense to get
a desktop notification or something.
And I'm sure someone's made a package for
that,
and we'll talk about packages and
modules later.
But yeah, by default,
we're not gonna get that.
So this is where being in
JavaScript is the same, but
it's in a different environment.
So it has access to different things.
So alert is not one of those
things that it has access to.
Does that make sense?
And this is what an error looks like, very
similar to what an error looks like in
the console in the browser,
cuz it's still just JavaScript.
You still get a call stack and
things like that.
Don't worry about this module stuff.
We'll talk about that some other time,
but yeah, it's just an error.